# Question 3
3. Find Palindromes and Semordnilaps (40 points)
Develop a parallel multithreaded program (in C/C++ using OpenMP) to solve the following problem. There is an online dictionary in /usr/dict/words or /usr/share/dict/words under Linux. The file is used, in particular, by the Linux spell command and contains a few thousand words, e.g., 235886 words. You can download a smaller file called words containing 25143 words. Recall that palindromes are words or phrases that read the same forward and backward, such as "noon" or "radar," i.e., if you reverse all the letters, you get the same word or phrase. Reverse pairs or semordnilaps are words whose reverse forms are different valid words, such as "draw" and "ward". Your task is to find all palindromes and all semordnilaps in the dictionary. For example, "noon" is a palindrome; hence, its reverse is trivially in the dictionary. A word like "draw" is semordnilap and "ward" is also in the dictionary. Your parallel program should use for-loop parallelism or tasks, and the number of threads used should be a command-line argument. Do the input and output phases sequentially and the rest in parallel. Your program should write the palindromes and semordnilaps in a results file.

Run the program on different numbers of processors and report the speedup (sequential execution time divided by parallel execution time) for different numbers of processors (up to at least 4) and different workloads (at least 3 different sizes of a dictionary). Run each program several times (at least 5) and use the median value for execution time. Try to provide reasonable explanations for your results. Measure only the parallel part of your program. Specify the number of processors used by specifying a different number of threads (set the OMP_NUM_THREADS environment variable or use a call to omp_set_num_threads(), see the OpenMP specification). To measure the execution time, use the omp_get_wtime function (see omp_get_wtimeLinks to an external site.).