Problems
1. Compute the Sum, Min, and Max of Matrix Elements (20 points)
The purpose of this problem is to introduce you to the Pthreads library. Download, compile, and run a program matrixSum.c Download matrixSum.c. The program computes a sum of matrix elements in parallel using Pthreads. Develop the following three modified versions of the program.
(a) Extend the program so that in addition to the sum, it finds and prints a value and a position (indexes) of the maximum element of the matrix and a value and a position of the minimum element of the matrix. To check your solution, initialize matrix elements to random values (rather than all ones like in the above example).
(b) Change the program developed in (a) so that the main thread prints the final results. Do not call the Barrier function, and do not use arrays for partial results, such as sums in the above example.
(c) Change the program developed in (b) so that it uses a "bag of tasks" that is represented as a row counter, which is initialized to 0. A worker gets a task (i.e., the number of the row to process) out of the bag by reading a value of the counter and incrementing the counter as described for the matrix multiplication problem in Slides 27-29 about the "bag of tasks" in Lecture 5.

2. Quicksort (20 points)
The quicksort algorithm sorts the list of numbers by first dividing the list into two sublists so that all the numbers if one sublist are smaller than all the numbers in the other sublist. This is done by selecting one number (called a pivot) against which all other numbers are compared: the numbers which are less than the pivot are placed in one sublist, and the numbers which more than the pivot are placed in another sublist. The pivot can be either placed in one sublist or withheld and placed in its final position. Develop a parallel multithreaded program (in C using Pthreads or in Java) with recursive parallelism that implements the quicksort algorithm for sorting an array of n values. Performance evaluation: Measure and print also the execution time of your program using the timesLinks to an external site. function or the gettimeofdayLinks to an external site. function (see how it is done in matrixSum.c Download matrixSum.c.). To calculate the execution time, read the clock after initializing all variables and just before creating the threads. Read the clock again after the computation is complete and the worker threads have terminated.

3. Compute pi  (20 points)
The points on a unit circle centered at the origin are defined by the function f(x) = sqrt(1-x2). Recall that the area of a circle is pi*r2, where r is the radius. The adaptive quadrature routine described in Lecture 1 can approximate the pi value, computing the area of the upper-right quadrant of a unit circle and then multiplying the result by 4. Develop a multithreaded program (in C using Pthreads or in Java) to compute pi for a given epsilon using a given number of processes (threads) np which is assumed to be a command-line argument (i.e., it's given). Performance evaluation: Measure and print also the execution time of your program using the timesLinks to an external site. function or the gettimeofdayLinks to an external site. function (see how it is done in matrixSum.c Download matrixSum.c.). To calculate the execution time, read the clock after initializing all variables and just before creating the threads. Read the clock again after the computation is complete and the worker threads have terminated.

4. The Linux tee command (20 points)
Develop a parallel multithreaded program (in C using Pthreads or in Java) that implements the Linux tee command, which is invoked as follows:

tee filename
The tee command reads the standard input and writes it to both the standard output and the file filename. Your parallel tee program should have three threads: one for reading standard input, one for writing to standard output, and one for writing to file filename. 

5. The Linux diff command (20 points)
Develop a parallel multithreaded program (in C using Pthreads or in Java) that implements a simplified version of the Linux diff command for comparing two text files. The command is invoked as follows:

diff filename1 filename2
The diff command compares corresponding lines in the given files and prints both lines to the standard output if the lines differ. If one of the files is longer than the other, diff prints all extra lines in the longer file to the standard output.

new_large.gif (UPDATED) 6. Find Palindromes and Semordnilaps (40 points)
Develop a parallel multithreaded program (in C using Pthreads or Java) to solve the following problem. There is an online dictionary in /usr/dict/words or /usr/share/dict/words under Linux. The file is used, in particular, by the Linux spell command and contains a few thousand words, e.g., 235886 words. You can download a smaller file called words containing 25143 words.
Recall that palindromes are words or phrases that read the same forward and backward, such as "noon" or "radar," i.e., if you reverse all the letters, you get the same word or phrase. Reverse pairs or semordnilaps are words whose reverse forms are different valid words, such as "draw" and "ward". Your task is to find all palindromes and all  semordnilaps in the dictionary. For example, "noon" is a palindrome; hence, its reverse is trivially in the dictionary. A word like "draw" is semordnilap and "ward" is also in the dictionary.
Your parallel program should use W worker processes, where W is a command-line argument. Use the workers just for the compute phase (i.e., to find the palindromic words); do the input and output phases sequentially. Each worker should count the number of words (palindromes and semordnilaps) that it finds. Your program should write the palindromes and semordnilaps to a results file and output the total number of palindromes and semordnilaps in the dictionary and the number of palindromes and semordnilaps found by each worker.
Performance evaluation: Measure and print also the execution time of your program using the timesLinks to an external site. function or the gettimeofdayLinks to an external site. function (see how it is done in matrixSum.c Download matrixSum.c.). To calculate the execution time, read the clock after initializing all variables and just before creating the threads. Read the clock again after the computation is complete and the worker threads have terminated.

7. The 8-queens problem (40 points)
The 8-queens problem is concerned with placing 8 queens on a chess board in such a way that no one queen can attack another. One can attack another if both are in the same row or column or are on the same diagonal. Develop a parallel multithreaded program (in C using Pthreads or Java) to generate all 92 solutions to the 8-queens problem. [Hint: You may develop a pipeline so that one thread (i.e., the main thread) uses a recursive procedure to generate queen placements, and several worker threads execute a procedure to check whether placements are acceptable.]
Performance evaluation: Measure and print also the execution time of your program using the timesLinks to an external site. function or the gettimeofdayLinks to an external site. function (see how it is done in matrixSum.c Download matrixSum.c.). To calculate the execution time, read the clock after initializing all variables and just before creating the threads. Read the clock again after the computation is complete and the worker threads have terminated.