# Question 6
new_large.gif (UPDATED) 6. Find Palindromes and Semordnilaps (40 points)
Develop a parallel multithreaded program (in C using Pthreads or Java) to solve the following problem. There is an online dictionary in /usr/dict/words or /usr/share/dict/words under Linux. The file is used, in particular, by the Linux spell command and contains a few thousand words, e.g., 235886 words. You can download a smaller file called words containing 25143 words.
Recall that palindromes are words or phrases that read the same forward and backward, such as "noon" or "radar," i.e., if you reverse all the letters, you get the same word or phrase. Reverse pairs or semordnilaps are words whose reverse forms are different valid words, such as "draw" and "ward". Your task is to find all palindromes and all  semordnilaps in the dictionary. For example, "noon" is a palindrome; hence, its reverse is trivially in the dictionary. A word like "draw" is semordnilap and "ward" is also in the dictionary.
Your parallel program should use W worker processes, where W is a command-line argument. Use the workers just for the compute phase (i.e., to find the palindromic words); do the input and output phases sequentially. Each worker should count the number of words (palindromes and semordnilaps) that it finds. Your program should write the palindromes and semordnilaps to a results file and output the total number of palindromes and semordnilaps in the dictionary and the number of palindromes and semordnilaps found by each worker.
Performance evaluation: Measure and print also the execution time of your program using the timesLinks to an external site. function or the gettimeofdayLinks to an external site. function (see how it is done in matrixSum.c Download matrixSum.c.). To calculate the execution time, read the clock after initializing all variables and just before creating the threads. Read the clock again after the computation is complete and the worker threads have terminated.